2020 年北京市高级中等学校招生考试
英
姓名

语

准考证号

考场号

座位号

考

1.本试卷共 10 页，共五道大题，39 道小题，满分 60 分，考试时间 90 分钟

生

2.在试卷和草稿纸上准确填写姓名、准考证号、考场号和座位号。

须

.

3.试题答案一律填涂或书写在答题卡上，在试卷上作答无效。

知
4.在答题卡上，选择题用 2B 铅笔作答，其他试题用黑色字迹签字笔作答。
5.考试结束，请将本试卷、答题卡和草稿纸一并交回。
知识运用(共 14 分)
一、单项填空(共 6 分，每小题 0.5 分)
从下面各题所给的 A、B、C、D 四个选项中，选择可以填入空白处的最佳选项。
1. Mr. Jackson is a popular writer， and we all like reading
A. his

B. her

C. their

2. Usually I make breakfast for my family
A. at

B. in

A. and
4.—

D. your
Saturdays.

C. on

3.Wash your hands before meals，
B. but

books.

D. to

you may get ill.
C. or

D. so

you give me a hand? I can't move the box by myself

—No problem.
A.

Could

5.—

B. Should

C. Must

D. Need

do you visit your grandparents，Tom?

—Twice a month.
A.

How much

B. How often

6. Zhaozhou Bridge is one of
A. old

B. older

7. If you take this train， you

C. How long

D. How soon

stone bridges in the world
C. oldest

D. the oldest

in Shanghai in five hours.
1 / 18

关注北京高考在线官方微信：北京高考资讯(ID:bj-gaokao)， 获取更多试题资料及排名分析信息。

A. arrive
8. I

B. will arrive

C. arrived

D. have arrived

on the computer when Frank called me last night

A. work

B. will work

9. We
A.
10.

C. was working

D. am working

each other since I came to Beijing， but we send emails very often.
don't see

B. didn't see

C. won't see

D. haven't seen

—What's that noise， Sam?
—My little brother
A.

with his toy car now.

will play

B.is playing

11.The kite
A.
12.

C. plays

D. played

in China more than 2,000 years ago.

invents

B. invented

C. is invented

—Do you know

D. was invented

?

—At 9:00 tomorrow morning.
A.

when the video meeting began

B.

when did the video meeting begin

C.

when the video meeting will begin

D. when will the video meeting begin
二、完形填空(共 8 分，每小题 1 分)
阅读下面的短文，掌握其大意，然后从短文后各题所给的 A、B、C、D 四个选项中，选择最佳选项。
At the end of my first year of high school， I realized I needed to find a summer job. I was tired of having to ask
my parents for

13

.I wanted to go to the shopping center or movies with friends without having to ask for $20

from my parents. I imagined having a job at a store or at a summer camp where I could play games with children. But
what actually happened was

14

.The only job I managed to find was cleaning up tables at a local restaurant.

At first， the idea of clearing tables upset me. The thought of getting up at dawn(
黎明) to go clean up after people made me

15

ever asking for a job. The first

day was terribly busy. I was running around， racing to get a table ready for the
waiting customers. I'll never forget how

16

I felt that day， but I'll also never

forget sitting down for lunch with my co-workers for the first time. People my age or
ten years older all sat together and talked about their days. All of a sudden I was a part
2 / 18

关注北京高考在线官方微信：北京高考资讯(ID:bj-gaokao)， 获取更多试题资料及排名分析信息。

of that， and it felt good to be so

17

.

I've now worked at the restaurant for almost one year. I've learned to be happy about getting up so early，
because I know there're going to be a few good

18

every day there.

From starting there as a shy student， I've been able to grow into a person that can go up and 19 anyone ， at
work or anywhere else. I'm also not as sensitive(敏感的) as I used to be-getting an impolite customer might make me
feel bad， but very soon I can laugh it off with my co-workers. The little job has given me so much， and I can't
wait to go back and continue to 20 from my experience.
13. A. food

B. money

C. attention

D. advice

14. A. exciting

B. encouraging

C. confusing

D. disappointing

15. A. forget

B. enjoy

C. regret

D. imagine

16. A. tired

B. happy

C. curious

D. relaxed

17. A. loved

B. missed

C. needed

D. included

18. A. dishes

B. choices

C. moments

D. customers

19. A. find

B. greet

C. push

D. stop

20. A. grow

B. stand

C. rest

D. hide
阅读理解(共 36 分)

三、阅读下列短文，根据短文内容，从短文后各题所给的 A、B、C、D 四个选项中，选择最佳选项。(共 26
分，每小题 2 分)
A

Helping Seniors(老年人)
Posted 5 / 15 / 20 4：53PM
I created Teens Helping Seniors with my friends. The group has about 200 volunteers.
The volunteers deliver food or other supplies for the elderly in town. I spend six to
eight hours a week buying food and making deliveries. By now we have completed 350
deliveries
3 / 18

关注北京高考在线官方微信：北京高考资讯(ID:bj-gaokao)， 获取更多试题资料及排名分析信息。

Posted 5/ 15 / 20 6：25PM
I organized Mittler Senior Technology， a program to help the elderly learn how to
use computers and smartphones. Now there are 50 local seniors in the weekly
technology classes. I want to make sure that the seniors could stay connected to the
world.
Posted 5 /16 /20 5:20PM
I came up with a way to help lonely seniors with my friends. We call it the Joy 4 All
Project. By dialing 569-4255, the elderly can hear pre-recorded jokes and poems. The
hotline has received more than 1,800 phone calls.
Posted 5 / 16 /20 7:46PM
I heard that the seniors in the nursing home couldn’t see their families and friends very
often, so my friends and I decided to cheer up the elderly by writing them letters, We
want them to know that nobody is being forgotten. By now more than 100 students in
my school have joined us.
21. Who created Teens Helping Seniors?
A. Kathy.

B. Linda.

C. Jordan.

D. Matt.

22. How many local seniors are there in the weekly technology classes?
A. 50.

B. 100.

C. 200.

D. 350.

23. To help the elderly in the nursing home, Kathy and her schoolmates_________.
A. taught them how to use computers
B. recorded jokes and poem for them
C. wrote them letters to cheer them up
D. delivered food or other supplies for them
B
A Day at the Nature Center
Emma stared(凝视) sadly out of the window of the bus. Only 50 miles outside town was the farm. She thought
about the farm all the time, especially the animals.
When her family sold the farm and moved to nearby town, Emma was excited. But when she got to the new
4 / 18

关注北京高考在线官方微信：北京高考资讯(ID:bj-gaokao)， 获取更多试题资料及排名分析信息。

school, she felt very lonely.
With a sigh(叹气), Emma turned her attention back to the present. The bus came to a stop.
“Welcome to the Leinweber Nature Center,” her teacher said. “A guide will give us a
presentation about animals, and then you’ll help to feed the baby squirrels, now, I want everyone
to find a partner.”
Emma didn’t have any friends yet—who would be her partner? Emma got close to Julia, a
talkative and outgoing girl. “Could I be your partner?” Emma asked uncertainly.
“Sure,” said Julia warmly.
Together, the girls walked into the center. After the presentation, a keeper showed them how to hold the bottle of
milk for baby squirrels. Then the girls started to feed their own baby squirrels.
After the babies finished eating, the keeper asked, “Would you like to help feed the adult squirrels, too?”
Emma was quick to volunteer, but when the keeper opened the first cage, the squirrel inside jumped out. Emma
remained calm(镇静的)， held out her hand, made quiet sounds, and then quickly got it.
“Wow!” Julia said. “You’re always so quiet, I thought you were afraid of everything, but you were brave.”
“I know that when animals are frightened or excited, you have to stay calm.”
The keeper nodded in agreement and asked Emma, “Would you be interested in volunteering to help out with the
animals at the center?”
“Interested? I would love to work here! What an opportunity!” Emma was excited.
That afternoon, in the bus on the way back to school, Emma sat next to Julia, her new friend. A rush of newfound
happiness washed over her.
24.

How did Emma feel when she got to the new school?
A. Lonely.

B. Lucky.

C. Surprised.

D. Angry.

25. At the nature center, Emma and Julia_______.
A. took a chance to be tour guides
B. helped to feed the baby squirrels
C. asked the keeper many questions
D. made a presentation about nature
26. On the way back to school, Emma felt happy because_______.
5 / 18

关注北京高考在线官方微信：北京高考资讯(ID:bj-gaokao)， 获取更多试题资料及排名分析信息。

A. the volunteers warmly welcomed her
B. the teacher praised her for her bravery
C. she found a place to care for animals and made a friend
D. she went back to the farm and learned a lot about animals
C
There are millions of recipes( 菜 谱 ) hidden in the boxes and hearts of grandmother and parents. These family
recipes are a special part of our family history. Some of them have been passed down from generation(一代人) to
generation.
"I realized I couldn't go home every weekend for my mom's delicious dishes," says Shreya, who is about to enter
university. Shreya has recently started following her mother around the kitchen, taking notes on how to make her
"masala chai" and tasty kachoris.
"Those special tastes can immediately unlock a whole flood of emotions, memories and feelings of family, love,
and comfort," says she.
She adds, "I am looking to the day when my kids will come to know of their grandmothers through the dishes
they cooked."
But many of us find it difficult to keep the food connection with our busy life. Even if we have time, not many of
us take the effort to collect and record the recipes from our grandmothers and parents. We often get a recipe on the
phone and take it down quickly on a piece of paper. We just stick it onto the fridge for a week or two and forget about
it as soon as the paper disappears from there.
Actually，there are simple ways to keep family recipes，Scrapbooks（剪贴薄）are easily found in the market.
You can even add photos to record every detail of your memories about the recipe. With the help of some popular
apps like Story Scans, recording family recipes has never been easier. What is needed is to scan（扫描） the recipes
and record the story behind each of them. It can become the most meaningful work you have ever done with and for
your family.
Keeping family recipes is saving and honoring our tradition so that future generations can continue to make
family ties stronger. Every time you remember your loved ones, recreate one of the dishes from your collection and let
the memories from the good old days comfort you. So why not gift your kids a family recipe book when they are
starting a new life?

6 / 18

关注北京高考在线官方微信：北京高考资讯(ID:bj-gaokao)， 获取更多试题资料及排名分析信息。

27. Why does Shreya follow her mother around the kitchen?
A. To clean up the kitchen.

B. To note down recipes.

B. To prepare family dinners.

D. To talk about family rules.

28. What can we learn from the passage?
A. Ways to record recipes can be easy.
B. Most people like writing recipe books.
C. Recipes have become popular with kids.
D. People often buy recipe books in the market.
29. Which of the following would be the best title for the passage?
A. Family Recipes: Secrets of Cooking
B. Family Recipes Are at a Crossroads
C. Family Recipes: Connections to Interests
D. Family Recipes Are More than Just Recipes
D
Today we can do everything with apps: pay bills， order food and shop for anything. Mobile technology
means we can hold the world in our hands， However, when it comes to
technology and health care， opportunities and challenges come together.
Let’s start with the ways to get health care. Telemedicine can allow a
patient to use technology to see the doctor online and get a diagnosis (诊断) and
instructions without leaving home.
In addition， there are many patient websites. These allow for different
kinds of interactions about our health needs without involving the medical team. Setting a date with doctors and
reading lab results are readily achieved by technology.
A whole new age of medical care seems likely (可能的) to come in the future. But every coin has two sides.
What might be on the other side of techno-health care?
7 / 18

关注北京高考在线官方微信：北京高考资讯(ID:bj-gaokao)， 获取更多试题资料及排名分析信息。

Firstly， we should think about the health care experience as a whole. A usual visit to a doctor begins with a
receptionist (接待员) ，who can see and tell how a patient is doing， This may influence the treatment effect. It’s
unlikely that a patient website will have such intuition.
Next， sharing the details of one's life requires trust, which takes time to build. This is certainly true in health
care， where some of life's best and worst moments involve doctors. The human touch should not be undervalued
and is unlikely to be there over the smartphone.
Lastly， test results can be difficult to understand. When someone without a medical degree sees a flagged
result with no explanation on the website， there's room for all kinds of stories to form in their minds—and also
great worry.
So how does medicine adapt (适应) to the new technology age? Very talented companies are working on it There
is medical equipment(设备) that can be used at home to send necessary signs and heart sounds through telemedicine
.It seems likely that some companies will find a way to explain test results.
But what it will not achieve is the warmth of human interaction and touch. Patients often need someone to listen to
—and care about—their journey story， which will never be realized through a human-less technology. Technology
should be a tool， but depending on it totally will most certainly have unexpected effects. Let's not allow our
humanity to be one of them.
30. According to the passage, how does technology help health care?
A. It encourages doctors to voice their needs on the websites
B. It offers the patient a convenient way to get a diagnosis
C. It improves relations between doctors and patients.
D. It provides an opportunity to build a medical team
31. The word “intuition” in Paragraph 5 probably means______.
A. an ability to understand

B. an interesting experience

C. a chance to win

D. a fair decision

32. What do you know about techno-health care from the passage?
A. Patient websites require trust from doctors.
B. Talented companies can give medical advice.
C. Flagged results may cause worry for patients.

8 / 18

关注北京高考在线官方微信：北京高考资讯(ID:bj-gaokao)， 获取更多试题资料及排名分析信息。

D. Medical equipment collects patients’ stories.
33. The writer probably agrees that_____.
A. technology can deal with unexpected effects.
B. telemedicine can take the place of usual health care.
C, it is difficult for patients to adapt to the new technology age.
D. techno-health care should take humanity into consideration.
四、阅读短文,根据短文内容回答问题。(共 10 分,每小题 2 分)
This 12-year-old Girl Built a Robot to Find Plastics in the Ocean
Anna Du was walking along the beach when she noticed plastics there. She reached down to pick them up, and
quickly realized there were many more tiny pieces than she could deal with. It seemed
impossible to clean them all up.
Du, 12 years old at the time, tried to solve the problem like any good scientist-first. by
doing a little research. That’s how she learned that 8 million tons of plastics end up in the
oceans every year.
Then she got to work building something that could help solve the problem; a remote-operated vehicle(遥控潜水
器), or ROV. Her ROV can move through water and find plastics on the ocean floor.
The actually cool part of Du’s ROV is the detection(探测) system. She uses a camera along with three different
kinds of light to find the plastics. She also uses visible(可见的) light to find unnatural colors that might make the
plastics stand out.
“She has a very good engineering sense to break down a problem like this and then go after it,” says engineer
Casey Machado. “It sounds simple, but it’s a level of thinking that’s really amazing.”
Du started attending public events and workshops at a university when she was five years old, and so she picked
up the engineering skills necessary to build her ROV. She says actually getting her ROV to move through water well
was not easy. She failed many times, but she never gave up trying and testing.
When asked about future plans, she mentions wanting to address the effects of climate(气候) change. “I think
there are a lot of problems that could be solved with new inventions,” says Du.
Du thanks her parents, who for years have taken her to student outreach activities, for supporting her interest in
science, technology, engineering and math (STEM). She says she has been able to meet students and scientists there.
“I know I want to be an engineer because I like building things to help solve world problems,” says Du. “But I’m
9 / 18

关注北京高考在线官方微信：北京高考资讯(ID:bj-gaokao)， 获取更多试题资料及排名分析信息。

not sure what kind of engineer I want to be yet.”
34. What did Anna Du notice while walking along the beach?
35. How old was Du when she did a little research to solve the problem?
36. What can Du’s ROV do?
37. Why does Du want to be an engineer in the future?
38. What made Du succeed in building her ROV?
五、文段表达（10 分）
39.从下面两个题目中任选一题，根据中文和英文提示，完成一篇不少于 50 词的文段写作。文中已给出内容不
计入总词数。所给提示词语仅供选用。请不要写出你的校名和姓名。
题目①
假如你是李华，你不小心把 Peter 借给你的书弄丢了。为表达歉意，请用英语给他写一封邮件，告知此事，
并提出弥补的办法。
提示词语：lose，make up（弥补），buy，send
提示问题：What happened to the book？
What will you do to make up for it？
Dear Peter，
How are you getting on？ I’m writing this email to say sorry

Yours，
Li Hua

题目②
“不积跬步，无以至千里。” 积累，有助于我们达成目标，实现梦想。
某英文网站正在开展以“积累”为主题的征文活动。假如你是李华，请用英语写一篇短文投稿，谈谈你在积
累知识方面做过什么，有什么收获。
10 / 18

关注北京高考在线官方微信：北京高考资讯(ID:bj-gaokao)， 获取更多试题资料及排名分析信息。

提示词语：accumulate（积累），read，keep，make progress
提示问题：What did you do to accumulate knowledge？
What have you learned from doing so？
Without accumulating，we can hardly achieve anything

11 / 18

关注北京高考在线官方微信：北京高考资讯(ID:bj-gaokao)， 获取更多试题资料及排名分析信息。

2020 年北京市高级中等学校招生考试
英

语

1．【分析】杰克逊先生是个受欢迎的作家，我们都喜欢读他的书．
【解答】his 他的．her 她、她的．their 他（她、它）们的．your 你的、你们的．根据 Mr．Jackson"杰克逊先生"
可知，应该是"他的"his．
故选：A．
【点评】考查代词．分析选项代词意思及用法，结合语境，找到关键词，选择合适答案．
2．【分析】通常我在星期六给家人做早餐．
【解答】at 在几点．in 在某年某月．on 在具体某一天．to 朝、向．根据 Saturdays"星期六"可知，在具体某一天
用介词 on．
故选：C．
【点评】考查介词用法，这个知识点很广泛，有一些固定用法，需要日常积累，结合语境选择正确介词完成习
题．
3．【分析】吃饭前洗手，否则你会生病．
【解答】A 表示和，B 表示但是，C 表示或者、否则，D 表示所以．根据题干可知吃饭前洗手，否则你会生病，
应用连词 or．
故选：C．
【点评】本题考查连词辨析，基础题，熟悉常见连词的含义，再根据题干即可作出选择．
4．【分析】你能帮我一下吗？ 我一个人搬不动箱子．
没问题．
【解答】could 能，会，是 can 的过去式，用在问句中表示委婉语气，不是一般过去时；should 应该；must 必须，
一定；need 需要；根据后句句意"没问题"和语法可知，前句为"你能帮我一下吗？ 我一个人搬不动箱子"，要填
"could"表示委婉语气，其它选项语意不通，也不符合语法．
故选：A．
【点评】考查情态动词，牢记情态动词的含义和用法，进行对比，排除错误的答案，从而做出正确的答案．
5．【分析】﹣﹣汤姆，你多久去看望你的祖父母一次？
﹣﹣一个月两次．
【解答】How much 多少，修饰不可数名词．How often 多久，对频率提问．How long 多久，对一段时间或长度
提问．How soon "多快/多久以后"其后用 in 加一段时间来回答．根据 Twice a month"一个月两次"可知，对频率提
问用 How often．
故选：B．
12 / 18

关注北京高考在线官方微信：北京高考资讯(ID:bj-gaokao)， 获取更多试题资料及排名分析信息。

【点评】疑问词组通常用来构成疑问句，要根据回答的具体内容进行选择，注意一些固定搭配，分清疑问词组的
用法，选择合适答案．
6．【分析】赵州桥是世界上最古老的石桥之一．
【解答】old 老的，形容词．older 更老的，比较级．oldest 最老的，前面通常加 the．the oldest 最老的，最高
级．这里是"one of+the+最高级+名词复数"的结构，表示"最…之一"．用最高级 the oldest．
故选：D．
【点评】掌握 one of+the+最高级+名词复数的结构，结合语境，分析选项，选择合适答案．
7．【分析】如果你坐这趟火车，你将在五小时内到达上海．
【解答】arrive 到达，动词原形．will arrive 一般将来时．arrived 过去式．have arrived 现在完成时．If 引导的条
件状语从句，主句一般将来时态，从句一般现在时态．一般将来时态结构是 will（或 be going to）后跟动词原
形．这里用 will arrive．
故选：B．
【点评】掌握 If 引导的条件状语从句，主句一般将来时态，从句一般现在时态的知识点．注意一般将来时态结
构，分析选项，选择合适答案．
8．【分析】弗兰克昨晚给我打电话时，我正在用电脑．
【解答】根据题干 when Frank called me last night，该句是 when 引导的时间状语从句，从句一般过去时，主句应
用过去进行时，其结构是主语+was/were doing．
故选：C．
【点评】本题考查过去进行时，要求学生掌握该时态的用法是解题的关键，再根据题干即可作出选择．
9．【分析】自从我出生后我们就没见过面，但我们经常发电子邮件．
【解答】从 since I came to Beijing 判断句子使用现在完成时，构成 have/has+动词的过去分词，主语是 we，用
have．
故选：D．
【点评】本题考查现在完成时，基础题，掌握每个时态常用的时间状语是解题的关键，再根据题干即可作出选
择．
10．【分析】那是什么噪音，山姆？我的弟弟正在玩他的玩具汽车．
【解答】A．will play 一般将来时；B．is playing 现在进行时；C．plays 一般现在时；D．played 一般过去时；根
据 now，可知句子是现在进行时，结构为 be+动词的现在分词，主语是 My little brother 第三人称单数．
故选：B．
【点评】仔细分析句子的结构，掌握现在进行时的用法．
11．【分析】2000 多年前中国就有风筝了．
【解答】invents，invent 的第三人称单数形式，意为"发明"，用于一般现在时；invented，invent 的过去式，意为
13 / 18

关注北京高考在线官方微信：北京高考资讯(ID:bj-gaokao)， 获取更多试题资料及排名分析信息。

"发明了"，用于一般过去时；is invented，意为"被发明"，用于一般现在时的被动语态；was invented，意为"被发
明"，用于一般过去时的被动语态．根据题干可知主语"The kite"是动作的承受者，因此谓语动词应用被动语态，
排除 AB．由时间状语"more than 2，000 years ago"可知此处应用一般过去时的被动语态，排除 C．
故选：D．
【点评】熟知一般过去时的被动语态的含义及用法，再结合选项，排除错误选项，选出正确的答案．
12．【分析】你知道视频会议什么时候开始吗？
明天早上九点．
【解答】根据题干" Do you know______ ？"可知句子缺少宾语成分，结合选项，此处应填宾语从句．宾语从句在
句中用陈述语气，排除 BD．由答语" tomorrow morning"可知从句应用一般将来时，排除 A．
故选：C．
【点评】牢记宾语从句在句中用陈述语气的规则，再结合具体语境，最终得出正确选项．
二、完形填空（共 8 分，每小题 8 分）阅读下面的短文，掌握其大意，然后从短文后各题所给的 A、B、C、D 四
个选项中，选择最佳选项．
13．【分析】本文讲述了作者找了一份在餐厅里清洁桌子的工作，从刚开始的不情愿到最后很享受这份工作，这些
经历让作者也发生了很大的变化．
【解答】（1）B．考查名词辨析．food 食物；money 金钱；attention 注意力；advice 建议．根据 I wanted to go
to the shopping center or movies with friends without having to ask for $20 from my parents，可知，作者已经厌倦了
总是跟父母要钱，故选 B．
（2）D．考查动词辨析．exciting 兴奋的；encouraging 鼓励；confusing 混淆；disappointing 失望．根据 I
imagined having a job at a store or at a summer camp where I could play games with children 及 The only job I
managed to find was cleaning up tables at a local restaurant，可知，作者想像自己应该找一个在商店或在夏令营跟孩
子们玩游戏的工作，但是最终他成功找到了一个在餐厅清洁桌子的工作，这令他很失望，故选 D．
（3）C．考查动词辨析．forget 忘记；enjoy 喜欢；regret 后悔；imagine 想像．根据 The thought of getting up at
dawn（黎明） to go clean up ，可知，在黎明就要起床去清洁桌子的这个事情让作者后悔曾经想找工作，故选
C．
（4）A．考查形容词辨析．tired 疲惫的；happy 高兴的；curious 好奇的；relaxed 放松的．根据 The first day
was terribly busy，可知，第一天非常忙，作者感到很疲惫．故选 A．
（5）A．考查动词辨析．loved 喜爱；missed 错过；needed 需要；included 包括．根据 All of a sudden I was a
part of that，可知，同事之间的相处很有爱，让作者感觉自己就是其中一部分，故选 A．
（6）C．考查名词辨析．dishes 盘子；choices 选择；moments 时刻；customers 顾客．根据 People my age or
ten years older all sat together and talked about their days，可知，作者想到每天都会跟同事坐在一起，并谈论他们
的每一天，这是一天中最美妙的时刻，故选 C．
14 / 18

关注北京高考在线官方微信：北京高考资讯(ID:bj-gaokao)， 获取更多试题资料及排名分析信息。

（7）B．考查动词辨析．find 找；greet 问候；push 推动；stop 停止．根据

From starting there as a shy student，

可知，作者把曾经的自己和现在进行对比，过去很害羞，现在可以上前问候每一个客人，故选 B．
（8）A．考查动词辨析．grow 长大；stand 站立；rest 休息；hide 隐藏．根据句意，作者从这个经历里学着长
大，故选 A．
【点评】完形填空题主要考查学生对词语的运用能力及对语境的理解能力，这类题同一小题的四个选项一般是同
一词性．做题时要先通读短文，了解各题所在的语境，然后在理解各选项意思的基础上结合具体的上下文来选择
最佳答案填空．
三、阅读下列短文，根据短文内容，从短文后各题所给的 A、B、C、D 四个选项中，选择最佳选项．（共 26 分，
每小题 6 分）
14．【分析】本文主要介绍了一些帮助老年人的组织
【解答】细节理解题．
（1）D．根据表格中 I created Teens Helping Seniors with my friends．可知 Matt 和朋友们一起创造了 Teens
Helping Seniors 组织．故选 D．
（2）A．根据表格中 Now there are 50 local seniors in the weekly technology classes．可知现在每周有 50 名本地高
年级学生上技术课，故选 A．
（3）C．根据表格中 so my friends and I decided to cheer up the elderly by writing them letters，We want them to
know that nobody is being forgotten． 可知所以我和我的朋友们决定给老人们写信，让他们知道没有人会被遗忘，
因此可知为了帮助养老院的老人，凯西和她的同学们给他们写信给他们加油．故选 C．
【点评】本文是一篇人物故事类阅读，题目涉及多道细节理解题，做题时结合原文和题目有针对性找出相关语句
进行仔细分析，结合选项选出正确答案．推理判断也是要在抓住关键句子的基础上合理的分析才能得出正确的答
案．
15．【分析】文章主要介绍 Emma 到了一个新环境，有些孤独，但交到了新朋友，找到了新兴趣，也找到了开心．
【解答】（1）A 细节理解题．根据第二段 But when she got to the new school， she felt very lonely．可知但是当她
来到新学校时，她感到非常孤独，故答案为：A．
（2）B 细节理解题．根据第二段 Then the girls started to feed their own baby squirrels．然后女孩们开始喂自己的
小松鼠．可知帮助喂松鼠，故答案为：B．
（3）C 推理判断题．根据第二段 But when she got to the new school， she felt very lonely．可知但是当她来到新
学 校 时 ， 她 感 到 非 常 孤 独 ， 和 最 后 两 段 I would love to work here! What an opportunity!" Emma was
excited．

That afternoon， in the bus on the way back to school，Emma sat next to Julia，her new friend．我很愿

意在这里工作！多好的机会啊！"艾玛很兴奋．那天下午，在回学校的路上，艾玛坐在她的新朋友茱莉亚旁边．可
知 Emma 即找到照顾动物的地方，也找到了新朋友，所以才开心，故答案为：C．
【点评】本文是一篇人物故事类阅读，题目涉及多道细节理解题，做题时结合原文和题目有针对性找出相关语句
15 / 18

关注北京高考在线官方微信：北京高考资讯(ID:bj-gaokao)， 获取更多试题资料及排名分析信息。

进行仔细分析，结合选项选出正确答案．推理判断也是要在抓住关键句子的基础上合理的分析才能得出正确的答
案．
16．【分析】本文主要讲了传承家庭菜谱的重要性和方法．
【解答】（1）B．细节理解题．题目问为什么在厨房周围跟着妈妈，根据第二段 Shreya has recently started
following her mother around the kitchen，taking notes on how to make her "masala chai" and tasty kachoris．可知她在
记菜谱．故选 B．
（2）A．细节理解题．题目问从文中我们可以知道什么，根据第六段 Actually，there are simple ways to keep
family recipes，可知有保留家庭菜谱的简单方法，因此可知记录菜谱的方法可以很简单，故选 A．
（3）D．文章标题题．题目问文章最好的标题是以下哪一个，根据第一段 These family recipes are a special part
of our family history． Some of them have been passed down from generation（一代人） to generation．可知本文主
要讲了家庭菜谱是家庭历史的一个特殊不分，有一些代代相传，因此判断本文最好的标题为家庭菜谱不只是菜谱，
故选 D．
【点评】本文是一篇人物故事类阅读，题目涉及多道细节理解题，做题时结合原文和题目有针对性找出相关语句
进行仔细分析，结合选项选出正确答案．推理判断也是要在抓住关键句子的基础上合理的分析才能得出正确的答
案．
17．【分析】本文主要讲了科技发展给医疗带来的机遇和挑战．
【解答】（1）B．细节理解题．题目问根据文章，科技如何帮助医疗，根据第二段 Telemedicine can allow a
patient to use technology to see the doctor online and get a diagnosis （ 诊 断 ） and instructions without leaving
home．可知科技允许患者使用科技在线就医并且获得诊断．即它为患者诊断提供了便利的方式，故选 B．
（2）B．词义理解题．题目意为第五段单词"intuition"的意思可能是____，根据第五段 A usual visit to a doctor
begins with a receptionist （ 接 待 员 ） ， who can see and tell how a patient is doing ， This may influence the
treatment effect． 可知平常就诊，医生会接待患者，并且可以看诊并且告诉患者怎么做，而判断在线医疗可能做
不到这样，因此判断划线单词的含义为就医的经历，因此判断划线单词的含义为经历，故选 B．
（3）C．细节理解题．题目问根据文章有关科技医疗你知道什么，根据第七段 When someone without a medical
degree sees a flagged result with no explanation on the website， there's room for all kinds of stories to form in their
minds﹣and also great worry．可知不懂医学的人看到一个结果会非常担忧，因此判断这样的结果会让患者担
忧．故选 C．
（4）D．推理判断题．题目意为作者可能同意____，根据 Technology should be a tool，but depending on it totally
will most certainly have unexpected effects． Let's not allow our humanity to be one of them．可知作者认为科技应该
是一种工具，我们不允许人性也成为科技的一部分，因此判断作者会同意的观点是电子医疗应该考虑人性．故选
D．
【点评】通读全文，理解文章大意，阅读题目后返回原文阅读并找出与题目相对应的内容，仔细核对，选择符合
16 / 18

关注北京高考在线官方微信：北京高考资讯(ID:bj-gaokao)， 获取更多试题资料及排名分析信息。

原文原意的答案，完成后再次阅读并检查．
四、阅读短文，根据短文内容回答问题．（共 10 分，每小题 10 分）
18．【分析】本文主要讲述了 Anna Du 为了清理海洋里的塑料制品建造了一种可以帮助解决这个问题的东西：一种
遥控飞行器（ROV）．
【解答 】（1）Plastics． 细 节 理 解 题 ． 根 据 第 一 段 中 Anna Du was walking along the beach when she noticed
plastics there．可知安娜杜正沿着海滩散步，这时她注意到那里有塑料制品．故答案为： Plastics．
（2）She was 12．细节理解题．根据第二段中

Du， 12 years old at the time， tried to solve the problem like any

good scientist﹣first．可知当时 12 岁的杜女士像任何一位优秀的科学家一样首先试图解决这个问题．故答案为：
She was 12．
（3）It can move through water and find plastics on the ocean floor．细节理解题．根据第三段中 Her ROV can
move through water and find plastics on the ocean floor．可知她的遥控潜水器可以在水中移动，并在海底找到塑
料．故答案为：It can move through water and find plastics on the ocean floor．
（4）Because she likes building things to help solve world problems．细节理解题．根据"I know I want to be an
engineer because I like building things to help solve world problems．"可知"我知道我想成为一名工程师，因为我喜
欢建造能帮助解决世界问题的东西．"故答案为：Because she likes building things to help solve world problems．
（5）She picked up the engineering skills necessary to build her ROV． Though she failed many times， she never
gave up trying and testing．推理判断题．根据倒数第三段中 Du started attending public events and workshops at a
university when she was five years old， and so she picked up the engineering skills necessary to build her ROV． She
says actually getting her ROV to move through water well was not easy． She failed many times， but she never gave
up trying and testing．可知杜女士 5 岁时开始参加大学的公共活动和研讨会，因此她掌握了建造 ROV 所需的工程
技能．她说，让她的 ROV 在水井中移动并不容易．她多次失败，但她从未放弃尝试和测试．因此可知杜成功建
造了她的 ROV 是因为杜女士掌握了建造 ROV 所需的工程技能，而且虽然多次失败，但是她从未放弃尝试和测
试．故答案为：She picked up the engineering skills necessary to build her ROV． Though she failed many times，
she never gave up trying and testing．
【点评】题目要求根据短文内容回答问题，主要考查学生的阅读理解能力、从文中提取信息的能力及归纳概括能
力．做题时，要根据不同的题型分情况作答．
五、文段表达（10 分）
19．【分析】【高分句型一】
I am sorry to tell you that I lost the book you lent me yesterday．我很抱歉地告诉你，我把你昨天借给我的书弄丢
了．
that 引导宾语从句．
【高分句型二】
17 / 18

关注北京高考在线官方微信：北京高考资讯(ID:bj-gaokao)， 获取更多试题资料及排名分析信息。

Please tell me where you bought the book．请告诉我你在哪儿买的这本书．
where 引导宾语从句．
【解答】Dear Peter，
How are you getting on？ I'm writing this email to say sorry．（写信目的）
I am sorry to tell you that I lost the book you lent me yesterday．【高分句型一】Yesterday afternoon， I was reading
this book by the playground， and I left it on the playground．I went back to look for it everywhere， but I couldn't
find it．
（发生了什么）I'm going to buy you a new one for you．Please tell me where you bought the book．
【高分句型
二】Send me the address．（怎么弥补）
Yours，
Li Hua
【点评】能够根据提示进行书面表达，能够围绕主题准确使用一定的语法、词汇、短语和句型等，清楚连贯地表
达自己的思想，进而完成写作任务．
20．【分析】【高分句型一】
So， it is very important to learn to accumulate in our life．所以，学会积累在我们的生活中是非常重要的．
It is +形容词 to do sth 做某事是…的．
【高分句型二】
I have not only accumulated a lot of knowledge that I can't get in class， but also made great progress in my writing．我
不仅积累了很多在课堂上得不到的知识，而且在写作方面也取得了很大的进步．
not only…but also…不仅…而且…
【解答】Without accumulating，we can hardly achieve anything．So， it is very important to learn to accumulate in
our life．【高分句型一】（点题）
As students， we should try our best to accumulate knowledge． Reading is a good way to accumulate knowledge． I
read for an hour every evening after I finish my homework． I have kept this habit for three years． I have not only
accumulated a lot of knowledge that I can't get in class， but also made great progress in my writing．【高分句型二】
（如何积累知识的）
Rome was not built in one day． As long as we insist on doing something， we must do it well．
（学到了什么）
【点评】能够根据提示进行书面表达，能够围绕主题准确使用一定的语法、词汇、短语和句型等，清楚连贯地表
达自己的思想，进而完成写作任务．

18 / 18

关注北京高考在线官方微信：北京高考资讯(ID:bj-gaokao)， 获取更多试题资料及排名分析信息。

专注北京高中升学

关于我们
北京高考在线创办于 2014 年，隶属于北京太星网络科技有限公司，是北京地区极具影
响力的中学升学服务平台。主营业务涵盖：北京新高考、高中生涯规划、志愿填报、强基计
划、综合评价招生和学科竞赛等。
北京高考在线旗下拥有网站门户、微信公众平台等全媒体矩阵生态平台。平台活跃用户
40W+，网站年度流量数千万量级。用户群体立足于北京，辐射全国 31 省市。
北京高考在线平台一直秉承‘’精益求精、专业严谨‘’的建设理念，不断探索“K12
教育+互联网+大数据”的运营模式，尝试基于大数据理论为广大中学和家长提供新鲜的高
考资讯、专业的高考政策解读、科学的升学规划等，为广大高校、中学和教科研单位提供“衔
接和桥梁纽带”作用。
平台自创办以来，为众多重点大学发现和推荐优秀生源，和北京近百所中学达成合作关
系，累计举办线上线下升学公益讲座数百场，帮助数十万考生顺利通过考入理想大学，在家
长、考生、中学和社会各界具有广泛的口碑影响力
未来，北京高考在线平台将立足于北京新高考改革，基于对北京高考政策研究及北京高
校资源优势，更好的服务全国高中家长和学生。

官方微信公众号：bj-gaokao

咨询热线：010-5751 5980

官方网站：www.gaokzx.com

微信客服：gaokzx2018

